Behavioral procedures
After recovery, rats were randomly assigned to either vehicle or scopolamine group, for each experiment. On Day 0, rats were waterdeprived
overnight and on the next day (Day 1) at 10:00 am they were placed in the training chamber, located in a separate room and
consisting of a polycarbonate cage (26 × 48 × 20 cm) with 10 marked 3 mL-drinking burettes (5 drinking burettes at each side of the box, and
distributed evenly). All rats were allowed to drink water for 10 min. This drinking session was repeated at 4 pm. The procedures for Day 2 were
identical to that of Day 1. These first four exposures to the training chamber served to acclimate rats to the drinking schedule and to
habituate them to the context in which the conditioning and testing was to be performed. Analysis of water intake of Day 1, Day 2 and Day 4 -for
which procedures were identical- showed that by Day 2, fluid consumption had stabilized (Suppl. Fig. 1).
Also, from days 0–2, every rat was handled for five minutes each, in the conditioning room, with the infusion pump set to “ON” and during
this procedure, animals had their stylets gently removed and put back in place, in order to habituate them to the infusion procedure of Day 3 (or
Day 5 for the retrieval experiments). On the morning of Day 3 (Acquisition), the water from the drinking burettes was replaced with a 0.1 %
(w./vol.) sodium saccharin solution (Sigma-Aldrich Co.) and after the 10 min-drinking session, rats received an injection of LiCl i.p. (0.15 M, 2%
b. w.). On the afternoon of day 3, five burettes were filled with water while the other five, alternated in a semi-random fashion, were filled
with the saccharin solution in order to perform a short-term memory (STM) test. The procedure on Day 4 was identical to that of the first two
days. On Day 5 in the morning, animals were placed in the training chamber with 5 burettes containing water and the remaining 5 containing
saccharin to evaluate long-term memory (LTM). The saccharin preference index (P.I.) was obtained for STM and LTM tests with the
following formula: 100 x saccharin (mL)/total fluid intake (mL). Please refer to Fig. 1 for a schematic representation of the experimental
procedures.